Chronicles of the conquest in America, narrate the presence of strange objects in the new territory, flora and fauna, dangerous landscapes, bipedal animals, "beardless natives" who did not speak our language. However, a strange event, I change everything. The encounter with the passiflora ligularis "climbing plants, glabrous. The leaves are long petiolate, basifig, whole, widely ovate, deeply rooted, abruptly subcaudada-acuminate, 8-17 cm long, 6-15 cm wide; With petioles 5-15 cm long, with 3-5 pairs of elongated filiform glands; Foliaceous stipules, ovate, 1-3 cm long. The solitary inflorescences, having a single striking pale green color, purple and lavender flower with dyes; The peduncles 2-5 cm long, articulated directly under the flower; Bracts involved and foliaceae, ovate, 2-4 cm. Long. Flowers 7-9 cm in diameter; Of the oblong calyx, 3-5 cm. Long; Narrowly lanceolate petals 3-4 cm wide; Filaments of the crown in several series, the outermost almost as long as the petals. Broad ovoid fruit, 6-8 cm. Long, purple yellow, golden ". Like gold! at last! The forbidden fruit. An old bird eating the fruit proved the discovery. We have arrived. The birds speak our language, the natives do not!This fragment of fiction, points out the relevance and power of the stories recorded in the chronicles of India and their relationship with devices of knowledge later narrated and translated into different languages ??by expeditionaries. The artist Jean Luc Godard states that the mission of the historian is to narrate (and I would say translate) as faithfully as possible the historical facts ... that never happened, this author makes a point to the deterministic discourses of power and how they have been geo-localized In hegemonic places of knowledge. Scientific explorations, which at this time had to resort to drawing, engraving and painting (and later to photography, film and video) to document their findings and observations. Here the scientific discourse was then accompanied by artistic observation in those first moments of re-discovery of the territory, when travelers and explorers made inventories of the goods of the colonies in order to facilitate their appropriation and exploitation.Taking into account that the fundamental nucleus of the digital humanities, corresponds to processes of data digitization and the creation of digital repositories for the conservation and transmission of knowledge, I propose the creation of a digital translation tool to convert the language (song) of The birds in a visual code and vice versa, I propose the teaching of sound codes to imitating birds that contain images: maps, landscapes and Indian bestiaries.Virus texts, virus sounds, virus image.During the 1970s the writer William Burroughs, in collaboration with the mathematician Ian Sommerville and the painter Brion Gysin, developed a series of language technologies, Burroughs claimed that the written word (code) was a code that played like a virus. Genetic transmission. He maintained in articles such as the electronic revolution, or texts such as Expresso nova and Naked Lunch, among others, that this virus-language resides in our bodies and manipulates our perception; The virus language theory was not well received at the time, attributed to the drug addiction and paranoid imagination of its author. But later, with the emergence of computer viruses, Burroughs' theory was accurately confirmed, these viruses are sifted, written and systematically contaminate the bodies of the machines.Jump to dispersion and vacuum. The technologies and logics developed and applied by William Burroughs were constituted as a series of tools and processes that will be the theoretical and conceptual basis of my project, this author revolutionized literature by producing his work in a hiertextual way, techniques such as fold in and cut- Up, were applied methodically to break the linear structure of literature, and even more of writing. "The cutup provides another way to control or attenuate the language virus, and allows learn to think directly in images, or in blocks or clusters »(Associative clusters) of word and image. This way of thinking, suggests Burroughs, is natural to cultures of hieroglyphic writing, in which writing refers directly to the object, without mediation of sound; We could obtain analogous results by thinking of associative blocks, and training is again provided by graphic and sound cut-ups, and scrapbooks that combine word and image. One of the things that disappears along with verbal thinking is the subjection to temporal succession: speech and reading are necessarily sequential, While experience and visual perception can accommodate varying degrees of simultaneity. " (Gamerro, 2009, p.5)Hypertext, Hypermedia (exnarrrative, exlineal, experimental)But in addition to cut-up and fold-in essays, Burroughs drew on new technologies and multiple media such as film, photography and above all sound and video recording to develop new forms of text Translation and transmutation Of written language were in their sights to develop new ways of reading, seeing and communicating, "the instruction to use technology against their holders, coarsely outlined in 1970 through the figure of an army of invisible youths hiding engravers under their Sacks, are now fully realized, when young analogues, endowed with much more sophisticated instruments, turn their computers and cell phones against the powers of the state "(Burroughs, 1970, p. 22); The development of collaborative networks, have led to events as renowned as the 15-M Movement or Arab Spring demonstrations already pointed out by our poet one of the first players of the era of digital technologies.As a prophetic text, in which2 Since the drug is an image, the effects of the drug can be produced and easily concentrated on a sound and image band - Thus: take a drug addict on the last - Proyéctesele blue light on the face to call it somehow or The blue drug will do the same and then give an injection to the junkie and photograph the blue miracle as life returns to that ambulant corpse - This will give the image band of the drug - The experimenter can then project the transformation Blue on its own face if you want to feel the Great Effect - Quote from Newsweek, March 4, 1963, scientific section: "Every substance has a characteristic register of sound frequencies that vibrate or oscillate" - So it is possible to record the frequency of The drug when it alters brain cells -"How is this?" - 32 brain waves or less and it